well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're gonna answer two
questions um
that have the same answer different
questions but they're incredibly
related um okay
so the first question is european here
what what's a swing state is is what the
question is
it's phrased in a very colorful way
though um
and the second question is what states
are most important for biden to secure
to get the landslide the answers are the
same
the states involved are the same to
understand what a swing state is you
have to know the united states works on
something called the electoral college
the way this works is if you get the
popular vote
in any state you get all the electors
for that
state you need 270 electoral votes
to win the presidency there are
exceptions to this i want to say
maine and nebraska have it divided um
divided up into areas
so if you get all of or the popular vote
in
one area you'll get the electoral votes
for that area and then there's another
but in most states it's it's statewide
some states say for trump
west virginia and wyoming they're going
to vote for him
he's he has those states on lock it
would be incredibly surprising
for either of those states to uh go to
biden
um for biden hawaii and california
like he doesn't need to campaign in
these states
he probably has 60 to 70 percent of the
vote
so he's going to win the popular vote
he's going to get the electoral votes
from there
swing states are states where the
population of likely democratic votes
and likely republican votes are close
they can swing
to either side
currently swing states
are now by some polls
texas might swing to biden
i would be amazed if that happened that
would be really surprising to me
taking that one out the swing states are
georgia
ohio north carolina arizona florida
pennsylvania wisconsin and nevada
those are the swing states which ones
are most important
for biden to secure to get that
landslide
the same states if you're a democrat in
those states and you want that landslide
you need to go vote i would suggest most
important for biden
would be nevada wisconsin and
pennsylvania
those are the ones if he wins those
which he has favored to win
he gets over that 270.
now again this is all based on polling
and if people don't go vote
the polling doesn't matter and there are
a lot of things that can
influence the polling and how accurate
it is
i have the strong belief that the reason
2016 was such a surprise to so many
people
was because there was a high amount of
negative voter turnout people who showed
up
not to vote for trump but to vote
against clinton
and a whole bunch of people looked at
the polls
and saw clinton way ahead and people in
swing states were like yeah i don't need
to go vote she's got this in the bag
and then she didn't i think those are
the two things
that led to a lot of the confusion and a
lot of
the shock when trump won
um so again those states
georgia it's amazing that george is in
play just
being in the south the fact that georgia
might
go to biden is really kind of surprising
but georgia ohio north carolina arizona
florida pennsylvania wisconsin nevada
those are the most important for biden
to win
if he wants the landslide
as far as a possibility of trump winning
by current polling there's not a lot of
paths to victory for him
he would have to flip one two
three four five states that are
currently
favored to go to biden however if people
don't show up that's possible
so that's what swing states are i know
uh from past experience
that a lot of europeans believed that it
was
they were called that because these were
the states that candidates
would swing through on the campaign
trail
which is true um that it is but it's
because they can go
to either party they're they're not
really
set in stone to go to a particular party
because of the population
the way they vote um
so there you go if you want to uh
keep up on the polling which i suggest
you don't
but if you want to there is a website
called 538
that actually puts out a little chart
that would
probably mirror pretty closely what i
just said
um it changes every day but it has like
a little snake like a little winding
path
to get to 270 votes and it helps uh
people who are visual learners
understand how it works and what the
swing states are
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night